The idea came out of discussions with [[Tim Bunckenburg]] and [[George Odonnell]] about [[king arthur and the arthurian legends]] and [[harry potter]] which focuses on a central magnetic figure, whos main purpose is to be a central connecting point for other, more interesting and more nuanced characters. 

I think this is a great candidate for a shared npc, which people play in turns.

One way to sort that is to have whoever is interacting with the central figure pass control to someone else, and whenever that person wants to interact they pass it off again. This is similar to how [[Venture rpg]] plays aspects of the world in a gm-less manner. In considering this, the GM is no different than a player. If the central player wants to interact with the rest of the world, or the world with them, then a player would play them interacting with the gm.

Another, not necessarily mutually exclusive, way this character could be represented is as some shared resource and burden of care as in [[the caravan as a shared character in uvg]].
They could offer some resource to PCs, in Arthur's case they might provide direction, advice, or material support, but also would require support and projection themselves. Crucially, because this is a shared played entity, this is not solely a mechanism for GMs to guide a game. It could provide a really good way for players to practice [[Story responsibility for players over just Character responsibility]].

This doesn't necessarily have to play into these sessions, but I think it could play into the hero tropes quite well. Many traditional adventure and fantasy stories  have genuinely altruistic, powerful or wise, and often less nuanced characters.  A wise wizard, The king's chancellor, The shining knight, The Chosen One ™, all are lodestones for adventure or a driving force. But, by the nature of their position are often unbalanced in terms of their power or importance when thinking about a roleplaying party, and also have a distinct lack of flaws that make playing a character very interesting. Having them as a shared entity means that that imbalance doest sit with any particular player which could be boring or frustrating for others.